**Small Engine Tachometer \- Sub-Component Design**

Below will be listed all non-purchasable custom-made components, how to create them, suggestions, and purchasable alternatives.

* **Shielded Cable** \- The shielded cable used to send and receive signals from the hall effect sensor and the main circuit.   
  * To create a similar shielded cable, start with 3 sections of 18G wire of about 6 inches in length. They should each have 1 female and 1 male contact pin on either side, and should all be running the same direction F → M.  
    IMPORTANT: Use 3 different colored cables to make differentiation easier when assembling the circuit.  
  * Next, twist the 3 wires together around 10 times. The HE sensor can now be wired to the female pins of the 3 wires.  
  * Make note of which cable connects to each pin on the HE sensor, then wrap the braided cable with a layer of electrical tape. Start from the connection between the HE sensor and the pins to ensure a solid, long-lasting connection, and wrap around the entire length of the cable, leaving only the pins and a small portion (¼ to ½ in) of wire exposed.. (Suggestion: Use a colored paint marker to mark the locations of the pins on the HE sensor with the corresponding wire color to make identification easier, since the electrical tape will hide the color of the wire.)  
  * Wrap with a layer of conductive foil tape (i.e. aluminum or copper foil tape). For this purpose, copper foil tape with a conductive adhesive backing is preferred, but standard aluminum HVAC tape will suffice, albeit with minor performance loss. Start from just after the start of the electrical tape where the HE sensor is, and wrap one layer around most of the cable. When you near the male end, you must take a new piece of wire and lay it between two layers of your conductive tape. This wire will be used to ground the shielding.  
  * Finally, wrap with another layer of electrical tape, ensuring that both ends of your foil tape are fully covered. Optionally, you can splice the shield’s grounding wire with the ground going to the HE sensor, or you can ground it separately.  
  * **Purchasable alternative**: Proper shielded cable can easily be found online or in certain stores. If purchasing shielded cable, 18AWG 3-Conductor cable is desired. However, note that this will require either attaching male and female contact pins or using alternative methods to connect wires. However, performance will likely be better.  
* **Casing**: Casing will be a custom-designed 3d printed model. The file will soon be uploaded to the GitHub project page, along with assembly instructions.  
  * **Purchasable alternative**: It is unlikely that any purchasable alternative is readily available. However, if a 3D printer is unavailable, it may be possible to repurpose an old container (ideally metal for in-built faraday cage functionality) into a suitable casing, however this will require great customization.  
  * *A note on engines:*  
    * The casing and its attachment method are (will be) designed with Harbor Freight’s Predator 212cc 4-Stroke engine in mind. This design is, as with many other 196/212cc engines, a clone of Honda’s very popular GX200 design. In particular, the casing is (will be) intended to attach to the Blower Housing and Recoil Starter assembly that is commonly found with many of these engines. Therefore, rare circumstances and custom modifications aside, the casing as presented should readily attach to any GX200 or clone engine, including the Predator 212cc. Other engines which use the same parts include the GX120 and GX160, as well as corresponding clones, however compatibility with these smaller designs is untested.
